Empowered by Python - A success story
=====================================

Introducing a new programming language in a company is always a daring
task, usually involving a lot of effort and the will for change.

We'd like to take you on a journey reflecting eight years of challenges,
solutions and success ending in a best practice guide helping you to
achieve the same.

Authors
-------

**Jens Nie** ([@jneines](http://twitter.com/jneines)), **Peer Wagner** ([@wagnerpeer](http://twitter.com/wagnerpeer))

Jens works primarily as a Technology Scout focusing on Big Data and Data
Science at the ROSEN Technology & Research Center in Lingen, Germany. In
this role he screens for latest developments in these areas and
evaluates and demonstrates their possible use and benefit for the
company. Looking back to more than 20 years in using Python and Linux,
he considers him to be an Open Source enthusiast and committed Python
advocate.

Peer is working as a Software Engineer at the ROSEN Technology & Research Center in Lingen, Germany.

Description
-----------

ROSEN is most recognized as a technology leader in the pipeline
inspection business. To steadily achieve the best in class service for
our customers, we are building and using the most sophisticated tools in
the industry to perform the inspection services. This often results in
very large volumes of data which have to be handled and analyzed.

As a consequence, we were always out to search for the latest technology
and state of the art tools to aid us.

At a point where the most traditionally used tools for data analysis no
longer scaled a handful of pioneers were brave enough to introduce a
massive change in the scientific tool chain. This involved to address
driving laboratory equipment, data processing, analysis and display,
handling large volumes of data efficiently, building attractive
graphical user interfaces, integrate with existing software applications
and prepare for modern data analysis concepts based on machine learning
to ensure both increasing result quality and faster data analysis.

We've found Python to be the ideal foundation to achieve all this and
started off with a few initial projects in order to prove. It turned out
Python would be a real game changer for us.

[![Empowered by Python - A success story](https://img.youtube.com/vi/2Ku3tV3QQ3M/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/embed/2Ku3tV3QQ3M)
